h1. Eridu

A Sinatra blogging app for the classy developer.

Eridu is heavily inspired by "Enki":https://github.com/xaviershay/enki. Coders know that *hacking code*, not checking preference boxes or installing plugins, is the easiest and best way to customize something. For this, you need a *clean, simple, easy to understand* code base. Eridu seeks a balance between simplicity and utility.

h2. Quick Start

<pre>
# You may need libxml2 and libxslt1 and their headers
# On Debian-based systems: apt-get install libxml2-dev libxslt1-dev
# On Mac OS X: no action required

git clone git://github.com/jhollinger/eridu.git eridu
cd eridu
bundle install    # Install all the required gems

# Copy and edit configuration files to taste
cp config/database.yml.template config/database.yml
cp config/eridu.yml.template config/eridu.yml

rake db:migrate   # Initialize the database
ruby eridu.rb     # Start the server at http://localhost:4567.
                  # Or use "bundle exec rackup", which starts
                  # the server at http://localhost:9292.
# Go to http://localhost:4567/admin in your browser to begin
</pre>

h2. Philosophy

* /yyyy/mm/dd/post-title is a good URL for your posts
* Atom is a good publishing protocol
* Google does search better than you or I
* You don’t need a plugin system when you’ve got a lean, clean code base
* OpenID is better than yet-another-auth system
* Textile is awesome
* Sinatra is perfect for this; Ruby on Rails is overkill
* Everyone wants live comment preview, reCAPTCHA spam protection, email notifications, and an easy to upload media
* Few really want multiple sites, authors, skins and arcane templating languages
* Responsive layouts are good
* You should be running Ruby 1.9

Framework choices aside, Eridu differs from its progenitor, Enki, mainly in the number of bundled features. These include reCAPTCHA spam protection, email notifications, a responsive layout, and a media uploader. While Enki leaves these "extras" as an exercise to the reader, Eridu pragmatically includes these de facto necessities.

h2. Enabling Optional Features

Eridu includes several optional features that are necessarily disabled by default: reCAPTCHA spam protection and email notifications. To enable them, look in @config/recaptcha.yml.template@ and @config/mail.yml.template@.

h2. Compatibility

Tested on MySQL, Postgres, and SQLite. Heroku should be possible, but is untested.

Enki and Eridu are so similar that @rake db:migrate:enki@ easily converts an Enki database to Eridu (it will leave some unused tables and columns behind, though). Also their URL structures are identical, so your existing links and page rankings won't even notice.

h2. Development Notes

The main public face of the app is in @eridu.rb@, and additional routes are under @app/handlers@. Otherwise, the code layout is very similar to Rails'.

h2. License

Apache - See LICENSE

Admin design heavily inspired by "Enki":https://github.com/xaviershay/enki and "Habari":http://www.habariproject.org/en/

Front-end design heavily inspired by "jscal.es":https://github.com/prezjordan/jscal.es and "Dorothy":https://github.com/cloudhead/dorothy
